Next, I'm gonna give you a moment to read
through this code cuz it's a little bit
more than what we had before.
It's a bunch of console log statements
that log out an animal name.
And my question to you is,
what is the order that we will see
these things written to the console?
And just to clue you in,
this is kind of the first line of
code that's actually executed.
So, I'll give you the first one it's dog,
right?
And then we're going to proceed forward.
So just take a look at that,
kind of follow it through and
tell me what order you think we'll get.
Okay, so let's walk through this.
We begin with dog and
then we execute main, right?
Well, first, let's look at the answer.
So it's dog, cat, elephant, giraffe,
zebra, koala, lion, and moose.
And I see that there are some
different answers in chat,
which means this is a good
question to walk through.
So, why this order?
So first dog, right, that's pretty clear.
That's the first line that we execute.
And then we enter main.
We go up here, and
it's an async function, but
we begin executing it immediately, right?
So until we have something that is async,
which is like this await down here,
we're gonna go ahead and
print cat console right away.
And then we're gonna go here and
we're gonna invoke get data.
That'll take us up here.
Now this is what will cause
elephant to get logged.
So although this is an async function,
we don't really create that promise and
sort of put a pin in that code and
come back to it later.
We don't do that until something
a sync actually happens.
So this is gonna be what's
logged next elephant.
And then we're going to
invoke this promise, and
this is a little bit of a tricky
situation because we're passing
this callback into our
promise constructor.
And there are two things
that could happen.
And it depends on what
promise does with this thing.
If promise uses this function,
we give it asynchronously,
if it's a set timeout zero and
then it calls the function.
Well then, we could assume koala is what
comes next but that's not what happens.
The promise constructor invokes
this function right away.
And this probably feels intuitive to you,
we've all created a promise before.
And you can kind of think of it as,
this code is running and then inside
the promise as we're setting it up this
other stuff starts running, right away.
So again nothing async happens yet,
so that's why giraffe comes next.
Now here's something interesting we call
resolve and what does that do that says.
You can think of it like,
this promise now becomes resolved.
So we set resolved equals true somewhere.
And we say, when someone attaches a .then,
we will give them the value.
So you can create an already resolved
promise like promise.resolve6.
That'll give you a promise that as
soon as you get a reference to it,
it's already resolved.
And if ten minutes later,
you attach a .then at ten minutes and
one second, you will get six, right?
So you don't have to be listening to it at
the moment it resolves to get that value.
It's sort of just holding that value and
it's ready for anyone to ask.
So all that happens here is
we kind of queue this up.
We say look, if anyone asks,
lion is what we resolve to.
So we go from giraffe we
kind of queue this up but
we don't do anything with it yet
and then we proceed to zebra.
And finally this promise constructor
it invokes this thing synchronously.
And then we hit koala, so
we get our reference to the promise
p which at this point is resolved.
But nobody even has access to it yet,
right, we haven't returned it
from the getData function.
Surely no one's attached
a .then to it yet.
So koala is logged next,
we return the promise.
That means that this getData
function it has now returned,
at which point we wait for
it to resolve and it resolves immediately.
Then we get the result and log it out.
So that's where we get
lion following koala.
So why is this important?
This is a TypeScript class,
why are we talking about
promises there are no types here.
Control Flow is important because
that's how we narrow types.
That's why when we have something that
could be a couple of different values and
we say, hey, if we go down this branch,
if it's a number, we do this,
if it's a string, we do that.
Well, it's important to know
what's synchronous, what's async.
What branch of code do we follow now
versus what happens potentially much
later after things are changed?
That has ramifications on what
the types of things will end up being.
Whether something is defined or not.
So we log out lion.
And then finally all of this wraps up,
we finish invoking this main function.
And then the stop then is called and
the last thing we log is moose.
And I see a lot of people
missed koala in chat and
that has to do with the synchronous
invocation of the thing
you pass to set up a new promise,
important thing to know.